---
layout: /src/layouts/NotionImport.astro
pubDate: "2025-09-17"
author: "Travis James Hornbuckle"
cGrade: null
pGrade: null
progress: 0
tags: ["Fall 2025", "Writing & Communications", "General Education Requirements", "Associate of Science"]
languages: ["slcc"]
image:
  url: "/images/posts/ENGL2010.png"


title: "Intermediate College Writing (ENGL2010)"
---

# Intermediate College Writing (ENGL2010)


## **📝 Course Description**


Students learn and develop skills in critical thinking and critical analysis of basic research in psychology, information gathering in psychological research, basic APA format for writing and references, and course and career options for pursuing the field of psychology.


## **🎯 Expected Outcomes**

- Learn to gather psychological information that is connected with research, therapy and psychology related issues.
- Students will gain skills in library and internet literature searches that focus on different areas of psychology.
- Demonstrate knowledge of different fields of psychology and given basic information about career options and related psychology degrees.
- Learn about and discuss various courses in psychology and allied fields that will assist the students in their career pursuits.
- Have a better understanding of what psychology can offer them in life, whether they continue their careers directly in psychology or related field, or pursue a very different area.
- Learn basic APA-style formatting in writing, especially in terms of how to cite sources.
- Demonstrate psychological knowledge and methods of oral and written delivery that prepares them for upper-level psychology courses and careers in psychology.
- Demonstrate the ability to organize information orally and in writing using key concepts from psychology and applying them to an analysis of psychological research, APA formatting, and career in psychology.
- Analyze various research projects and data, and be able to understand the methods used, the short comings of data collection, and more effective techniques implications of this data.
- Develop skill in critical thinking related to psychology and social science research and information.
- Read, discuss, and critique classic research in psychology as a way to hone these skills.
- Develop their skills in theory evaluation and to enhance their knowledge of research in psychology.
- Demonstrate the ability to reason effectively using available evidence and the tools of critical thinking to present in-depth information demonstrating knowledge of the scientific method, research design, and “healthy skepticism” and analysis of research.
- Learn to critique sources of information and become more informed consumers of psychological information.
- Understand the psychological contexts of marginalized groups within U.S. society and will learn to use newly learned terms and language that will prepare them for polite and appropriate discourse of sensitive issues in the realm of psychology and psychological thought.
- Apply their knowledge to the importance of social change and psychological adaptation.

## **📝 Course Syllabus**


<a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documents/posts/ENGL2010-Syllabus.pdf">Click Here</a> to download a full copy of this course's syllabus.


## **✒️ Signature Project**


## **🪞 Course Reflection**


