---
layout: /src/layouts/NotionImport.astro
pubDate: "2025-08-26"
author: "Travis James Hornbuckle"
cGrade: 0.056451612903
pGrade: 1
progress: 0.142857142857
tags: ["Fall 2025", "Social Sciences", "Program Requirements", "Associate of Science"]
languages: ["slcc"]
image:
  url: "/images/posts/PSY2250.png"
syllabus: "/documents/posts/PSY2250-Syllabus.pdf"

title: "Personality Theory (PSY2250)"
---

# Personality Theory (PSY2250)


## **📝 Course Description**


An introduction to the psychological study of personality which focuses on personality theory, personality assessment techniques and personality change with emphasis on developing a scientific approach to understanding self. This course will provide you with an introduction to the psychological study of personality, which focuses on personality theory, personality assessment techniques, and personality change with an emphasis on developing a scientific approach to understanding self. In sum, we will be examining the complex, individual artistry that is you.


## **🎯 Expected Outcomes**

- Describe the major tenets of classical and contemporary personality theories, as well as recognize their contextual assumptions (e.g. historical, experiential, cultural).
- Evaluate various personality theories based on research support, limitations, and applications.
- Describe the methods involved in personality psychology research and assessment.
- Explain the important variables that influence personality and its development (e.g. individual differences, biology, environment, culture) from various theoretical perspectives.
- Examine how personality influences important aspects of well-being (e.g. interpersonal, emotional, mental health).
- Apply aspects of personality theories to understanding self and others.

## **📝 Course Syllabus**


<a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documents/posts/PSY2250-Syllabus.pdf">Click Here</a> to download a full copy of this course's syllabus.


## **✒️ Signature Project**


### 


<iframe src="/documents/posts/PSY2250-Signature" width="100%" height="600px" class="myIframe">


<p>PSY2250Signature Assignment</p>


</iframe>


## **🪞 Course Reflection**


