---
layout: /src/layouts/NotionImport.astro
pubDate: "2025-08-26"
author: "Travis James Hornbuckle"
cGrade: null
pGrade: null
progress: 0
tags: ["Fall 2025", "Social Sciences", "Program Requirements", "Associate of Science"]
languages: ["slcc"]
image:
  url: "/images/posts/SOC1010.png"
syllabus: "/documents/posts/SOC1010-Syllabus.pdf"

title: "Introduction to Sociology (SOC1010)"
---

# Introduction to Sociology (SOC1010)


## 📝 Course Description


The scientific study of society. Foundational sociological theories and methods create understanding of the diverse human experience, including race, class, gender, and social structure. Students will activate their “sociological imagination” to critically evaluate the social world they engage. 


## 🎯 Expected Outcomes

- Demonstrate the substantive knowledge appropriate for a survey course in sociology, which also serves as the foundation for further courses in sociology.
- Write and speak effectively using sociological concepts and perspectives and referring to relevant sociological theory and research.
- Interpret sociological data as represented in tables, graphs, and charts.
- Compare and contrast the three major perspectives in sociology including Conflict Theory, Symbolic Interactionism, and Functionalism as they are applied to various topics in the course.
- They will also be able to compare and contrast competing theories that are used to explain the same social phenomenon.
- Apply their sociological imagination in order to better understand their own social experience and also the experience of others.
- Use and understand basic social scientific language. Explore their personal experience through broader theoretical frameworks.
- Describe the social structures of bureaucracies, institutions, and organizations that they come in to contact with.
- Demonstrate their understanding of sociological concepts by applying them to their personal experiences via class assignments. Use the scientific method to study society.

## 📝 Course Syllabus


<a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documents/posts/SOC1010-Syllabus.pdf">Click Here</a> to download a full copy of this course's syllabus.


## ✒️ Signature Project


<iframe src="/documents/posts/SOC1010-Signature" width="100%" height="600px" class="myIframe">


<p>SOC1010 Signature Assignment</p>


</iframe>


## 🪞 Course Reflection


